---
author: Anubhab patnaik
title: My college essay 
date: "2023-01-19"
description: "This is the college essay that got me into the [UNI]. I am sharing this to help others write their essays. I hope this helps :)"
tags: ["CSE", "US", "masters"]
ShowBreadCrumbs: true 
---
As I sit in front of my computer, typing away at lines of code, I am wooed by the sheer potential of computer science. As a child, I was fascinated by the art of engineering and its ability to solve complex problems and make our lives easier. I remember spending countless hours fidgeting with electronic devices, tinkering with computers, trying to understand how they worked and how I could make them do amazing things. From launching satellites and rovers on other planets to developing algorithms that can predict the future, the possibilities in this field are truly limitless. As an undergraduate student studying computer science, I am privileged to have discovered my passion for it and I am thrilled by the prospect of contributing to this ever-evolving and exciting field in the future.

During my undergraduate studies, I gained extensive experience building web, mobile, machine learning, and command-line applications. Initially, I was more interested in exploratory data analysis and machine learning, creating projects such as Movie Recommendation and Movie Rating Prediction systems, utilizing algorithms like Gradient Descent, logistic regression, and SVMs. As I progressed in my studies, my interests shifted towards web and mobile development. I began by building mobile applications and websites using technologies such as Javascript, PHP, Go, ReactJs, React Native, and Firebase, as well as cloud technologies like AWS and GCP. My GitHub repository now contains over 100 projects, including a static site generator built using NodeJs, a web platform to make education more accessible, a command-line torrent client, and a fast blog application using Rust and Django.

Aside from my academic pursuits, I am passionate about utilizing technology to create positive impacts within my community. Throughout my undergraduate studies, I have actively sought out opportunities to employ my knowledge for the betterment of others. During my time in college, I co-founded the first official coding club on campus, SWITCH, where I served as the joint secretary. Our primary objective was to establish a coding community for students, offering various workshops, hackathons, and coding competitions. In addition, I built a FOSS (Free and Open-Source Software) community called cbrtl, a close-knit group of programmers and open-source enthusiasts who enjoy working on fun projects together and building a community. My passion for mentoring and community-building led me to be appointed as the Student Chairperson of the prestigious IEEE Students' Chapter at the Silicon Institute of Technology. In this role, I conducted workshops, hackathons, and coding competitions on a larger scale, with the support of a broader community. I also served as an avid mentor in other tech communities, such as UnStop, among others.

In addition to my academic and professional endeavours, I also have a passion for music, photography, and freelance graphic design. Currently, I am learning to play the guitar, with a keen interest in Indian Bollywood music. I find that music feeds my soul and brings balance to my life, giving it a greater sense of purpose. In my free time, I enjoy reading and watching science fiction, thrillers, mysteries, and fantasy thrillers. Additionally, I attend seminars on various topics such as space exploration, life in space, theoretical and quantum physics, and technology. I also actively participate in debates and Model United Nations conferences, where I have been recognized as the best delegate in several instances.

I am eagerly looking forward to embarking on a new chapter. With my sights set on new horizons, I am excited to see where life takes me and to see what the future holds. I am a highly ambitious individual, motivated to pursue a Master’s Degree in Computer Science at the esteemed [UNI]. My academic background, professional experience, and passion for this field make me a strong candidate for admission, and I am excited to contribute to the community of scholars at [UNI].
